Inverted monopoly with aliens (i.e. negative feedback loop)

Single player game
Defend your owned estates
Dice roll to move
Option to claim, defend, or move on, at each territory.
Turn based, 10x10 board. Maybe not a ring.

Zombies spread through neighbourhoods.
Neighbourhoods have residents.

You win when you own the whole map.  You lose when everyone is
dead. You never die.  Buildings initially have survivors in them. Once
you've taken a building, the survivors are now exposed. If you don't
defend the building in time, that person dies.

Options:
- Left/Right
- Wait

Maybe:
- accelerated speed (bike?)
- fortifications (hotels?)
- chance/jail
- boss?

Buildings of same colour are blocks that survivors can move through;
they give you time to arrive. The equivalent of chance/community is
open areas. Stations when uncovered are fast travel. Utilities need to
be some kind of boost.

Maybe just simple vector colour graphics. A nice font, high
res. Initial fog of war.

What if survivors die on contact with aliens? And the aliens move
randomly, but will flee from the player? The game then becomes a
rescue mission.

Randomly generating boards would be fairly easy.

--------------

Needs more interesting moment to moment choices
Single direction of movement (like monopoly), but not randomised

There needs to be a reason to choose one tile over another

Possible goals:
- kill the alien
- clear the board (impossible with the alien chasing?)
- rescue survivors

Needs a resource that feeds a negative loop. Alien landing on resources
costs you rather than them (direct inversion of monopoly)? How does
building fit in?

Maybe each square has a potential upgrade, or set of upgrades. Some
places could let you build traps. Some places could let you build (?)
resource farms.

What if survivors move too once unlocked, and the alien can kill them,
forcing the player to delay the alien. How does the player delay the
alien? What if trashing stuff delays the alien? More build up = longer
delay, but more (money?) wasted. Maybe also powers up the alien,
making it grow(?)

What if the board changes, each time round (so there's no permanent
fixtures?) At this point, it's basically a line and you can never
return to where you were.

Actions:
- search (may uncover survivors, loot(?))
- move (short list of places you can move to)
- fortify (costs time, resources?)

5 visible squares (2 behind, 2 ahead). Rather than rolls, use
sim time like ADOM; so in each time unit the monster and the 
people move some amount. Have to be on same square as survivor to use
survivor's skills. Survivors all move independently.

Make it to the end to win. Show progress bar of some kind. Need
some way to prevent you just outrunning the alien and making all the
mechanics pointless.

Ignoring skinning, think of the squares as colours. One colour per
survivor type. Each buff speeds you up immediately, and the monster up
some time later. Your buff fades, the monster's does not. More
survivors = stronger buff.

Buffs: 
 Electric - speed survivors
 Train - jump ahead
 Building - find more survivors?
 Building - fortify
 River(?) - barrier, needs survivor

-------

 Grassland - energy?

Ability to move (stamina) ticks down each time you advance. When it
reaches zero, you can't move, then the alien catches you. If you
advance, you can't return to where you came from. Each square has an
energy cost. Energy replenishes slowly.

Types of city environment:
- parks
- factories
- office blocks
- ruins

What if there's no alien, only starvation? But then, what's the point
of survivors?

Areas with defence bonuses.

Game is much easier to design with some more granular resource than
any of the ones we have available. 

Maybe survivors are the only resource we need (and time). Maybe it's
simpler if the alien just jumps forward after eating a
survivor. Negates the risk reward (it's either universally good
because they jump forward less far, or it's universally bad because
they jump forward farther). 

So what about: it always jumps forward the same distance, but it may
be delayed by different amounts, from a lot (big gain) to very little
(small gain). Maybe survivor type and building type interact.

Key variables here:
- How far away the alien is.
- Where the survivors are.
- What squares are around you.

Survivor/square interaction is the most interesting part I think.

Monopoly has 8 colours + trains + 2 utilities. This seems like a lot
for these purposes. Even three colours might be enough:

- soldier
- engineer
- scientist

Soldier: fortify
Engineer: repair
Scientist: alien tech?
